** # sign to add commnets in R
   ----------------------------------
ex: # Calculate 3 + 4
    # Hello R


** Arithmetic with R
   ------------------------------
Addition: +                      ex: 5 + 5
Subtraction: -                   ex: 10 - 8
Multiplication: *                ex: 9 * 2
Division: /                      ex: 10 / 4
Exponentiation [calculate power]: ^                                       ex: 2^4
Modulo[returns the remainder]: %%                       ex: 28%%6


** Variable assignment
   ---------------------------------
We can assign a value 4 to a variable my_var with the command:   my_var <- 4

ex: 
# Assign the value 42 to x
x <- 42

# Print out the value of the variable x
print(x)

# Assign a value to the variables my_apples and my_oranges
my_apples <- 5
my_oranges <- 6

# Add these two variables together
my_apples + my_oranges

# Create the variable my_fruit
my_fruit <- my_apples + my_oranges

# print 
print(my_fruit)


** Basic data types in R
   ---------------------------------
-->* Note that R is case sensitive!

R works with numerous data types. Some of the most basic types to get started are:

--> numerics [decimals, integers]
--> logical[TRUE, FALSE]
--> characters [Text or string]

* Decimals values like 4.5 are called numerics.
* Natural numbers like 4 are called integers. Integers are also numerics.
* Boolean values (TRUE or FALSE) are called logical.
* Text (or string) values are called characters.

ex: 
# Change my_numeric to be 42
my_numeric <- 42

# Change my_character to be "universe"
my_character <- "universe"

# Change my_logical to be FALSE
my_logical <- FALSE


** What's that data type?
   -------------------------------
To check the data type of a variable  use class() function
                                          -------
ex:
# Declare variables of different types
my_numeric <- 42
my_character <- "universe"
my_logical <- FALSE 

# Check class of my_numeric
class(my_numeric)               O/P: numeric

# Chclass(my_numeric)
class(my_character)             O/P: character

# Check class of my_logical
class(my_logical)               O/P: logical

